So now, you have this thing in the middle
here, and you can click on it and
this will take you back to the home page,
so you can go back and forth.
So if you're seeing \like a useHref error,
it's because your link
is outside the browser.
So let's take a look at
what that would look like.
So, if I just move this, so now this link
tag is outside of the browser router.
If I go back, and look at,
now I have nothing here and
I look at the console here,
you can see useHref may only be used in
the context of a router component, right.
So this is what I was talking, too,
about before is make sure that your
links are always inside of the router.
Let's put that back, cool.
One more thing here,
you're seeing browser router.
There's actually multiple different types
of routers you can use with React Router.
So I think it's called #router, it is.
Okay so let's just pop in #router for fun.
And if I save that, and
now I go to Details, look at my URL.
So obviously in the homepage is fine but
if I go to Luna,
notice that there's this #/ thing.
If you've ever done other websites where
you are not in control of the server, or
you have a back end team that you don't
wanna work with cuz they're a bunch of
jerks and
maybe projecting a little bit right now?
[LAUGH] Sometimes you don't
have the ability to create
firm routes on your server.
So what this #router allows you to do,
is it allows you to create basically
a router that never leaves that one page,
right?
So this #/ will always
route to the same page, so
you can actually just do this without
doing anything to your server.
Whereas if you're doing browser router
you have to make up make sure all
of your routes from either Nginx or
from Apache.
Or whatever you're using for
your kind of server ingress,
all route to the same index HTML page,
right?
Does that make sense?
So hash router allows you to not do that,
it allows you to just be lazy and
say, cool.
Just send everyone to this one page and
everything will just work, and
we'll use the hash router here.
Whereas browser router, Allows you,
Now notice, the #/ there is gone.
Where possible you use browser router.
It's better for SEO, it makes more
sense to users, the URLs are better.
It's just overall better experience for
both you and for them.
Sometimes it's either not important,
if it's like an internal website,
who cares, right?
It's not being indexed anyway.
And screw the rest of your
employees that work with you.
Or, yeah, so it doesn't matter
if it's something like that.
So yeah, use browser router where possible
though, for consumer facing applications.
Okay, All right, any questions about that?
That's about as much as I'm
gonna get into React Router.
It's a very deep pool that someone
could come teach a course just on
React Router if they wanted to, but
that person's not me cuz I don't want to.
Yeah, Mark?
>> If I wanted to post something
from my app to my server,
may I use the POST method
in the reactor out?
>> That's not something I'm familiar with,
if that's the case.
I would just use a normal, either HTML
form post which would go to a server.
Or like a Ajax fetch with request
with the post in the headers,
but maybe I'm not understanding
the question correctly.
Or to restate that, I'm not familiar with
React Router doing anything for posting.
Remix does.
So, Remix is basically the React Router
people took React Router, and
then built a server layer on top of that,
right?
That's basically the entire value
prop of to me what Remix is.
I actually built the course website here.
I built it in Remix just for
fun to see how different it was.
It's a lot of fun.
We'll talk maybe more about it
a little bit at the end, but
you can basically think of remix
as a replacement for rails.
But it's all React Router-y,
it's like React Router-y rails.
Yeah, I'm happy with that analogy.
[LAUGH] I don't think about it.
Yeah, question?
>> It was like expresses now you're
writing express stuff on your front end,
then you're kind of combining off
that routing logic all into one?
>> You could think of it that way.
It's more like Next or yeah, Remix and
next are very similar in that capacity.
Mark, you had a question?
>> How do you create protected routes?
>> Yeah, that's a good question.
I'm gonna go ahead and say, read the docs,
cuz it's a kind of an in-depth question,
But it's not anything
that's gonna surprise you.
Yeah, I guess read the docs.
I don't wanna go much
further into it than that.
I also can't do it off the top of my head,
so that's another reason.
>> Is it best practice to have all
the component files in their own folder?
>> Yeah, that flavor of question comes up
every time I teach this course of like,
how do I organize my react code?
Cuz obviously this is just kind of
spewing all of our components and
styles, and index HTML and
custom hooks into one directory.
Is that the best way of
organizing your code?
Probably not.
[LAUGH] I've tried
different opinions over the years of how
I like organizing react code, and I don't
know if I've ever really been satisfied
with any one particular way of doing.
I've seen people say, are all routes go
in one, all reusable components go in
another, all utility is going to
a different one, all my hooks go in one.
That's certainly a way to do it, and
I find that it never works
out the way you want it to.
Because then you get, well,
this one's kind of component-y and hook-y,
which one do I put it in?
I'll put it in neither, I'll create a new
directory, and then you have, all right,
is this in the legacy components or
the new Components directory?
It never ended up the way
that I wanted it to.
Certainly organizing by route
seems to make some sense to me.
You could try that.
I can show you one that
I wrote some years ago.
I think it's called Photo Gallery.
Yeah, I was pretty happy with this one.
You can see this is pretty old,
this is five years old.
But if you go to my source directory here,
I had this Components directory and
every component was a directory.
And then if you click into one of these,
the CSS is in it, the component is in it,
the test for that component
are all in the same directory.
I was pretty happy with this.
This seemed to work pretty well
because then the entire world for
one component lived in one directory.
The issue is what happens if I have
child components of these ones?
Do I put it in the same directory?
Do I put it in this sibling directory?
I don't have a great answer for
that either.
So code organization always,
especially for
long-lived applications,
always ends up messy.
So embracing that fact and kind of leading
into it instead of trying to dogmatically
apply rules that'll never work.
It seems to work best for me.
It's like embrace the mess, right?
Make it searchable and make it believable.
If something's deletable,
that's how you know you've done well.
Cuz that means you understand your
dependency tree enough that you can
confidently delete things.
That seems to be the best thing
that I've ever optimized for.
So I gave you a total non-answer.
I'm aware that I did that, as, one,
I'm kinda unsure of the answer myself, and
two, it's highly contextual to you,
your team, how you're writing things,
what makes sense to you, and
the problem that you're solving.
Honestly, if you're writing an app
this big that's fairly small,
applying too many rules of
organization is just wasteful.
The least amount of process that
works is probably the best idea.
But make sure you have some process or
else you're just gonna end up
with something even worse.
At the end of the day, I just said,
I've seen some shit, right?
[LAUGH] I've seen really great code bases.
The Netflix one actually
was a fairly large mess.
It got better, it got worse.
We had a bunch of rewrites that never
ended up the way that we wanted them to.
So, I don't know.
I feel like I've kind of lost my way here,
I'm just kind of rambling about all
the things that I've done in
my career that were a mistake.
[LAUGH] Group therapy,
we're going back to that.
>> Any route you want to
have on the app or site,
you need to have in the routes?
>> Yes, so
anytime that you add a new route here
you just stick another route here.
Or you put like a child one if it's gonna
live in a different part of the app, yeah.
But it has to be inside of the routes.